Manifold Release Note

Current release: 0.9
Release date: 10-8-2012


What's New in This Version

This is another beta release of Manifold. The following is a list of what's new in
this release.

1. Flow control between components has been implemented. Specifically, we now have
flow control between Iris (the network model) and MCP-cache, and between Iris and
CaffDRAM. Iris, MCP-cache, and CaffDRAM have all been modified to support this.
The flow control is credit-based. Therefore, in the configuration file for the
simulators, the credits must be specified.

1.1 Iris' network interface can only send out a packet if it has credits to do so.
Otherwise, the packet stays in the output buffer, which is newly created in this version.
The network interface sends back a credit packet whenever a packet is successfully pushed
into the router.

1.2 MCP-cache can only send message out to the network when it has credits. Otherwise,
the message stays in the output buffer, which is newly created in this version. MCP-cache
sends a credit to the network after it processes a message. In future releases, this
may be changed so that there is a delay between processing the message and sending out
a credit.

1.3 CaffDRAM can only send message out to the network when it has credits. Otherwise,
the message stays in the output buffer, which is newly created in this version. When
a message is sent, a credit is sent at the same time. Therefore, the number of credits
the network interface has limits the number of active requests to the memory controller.


2. The simulator programs have been updated. The configurations include credits for the
components.

3. Iris supports simulated packet length. With this, the actual size of the network
packet is not important anymore. the simulated length can be either greater or smaller
than the actual size. Iris will convert a packet into flits based on the
simulated size of the packet, not its actual size. For example, a packet whose size is
40 bytes can have a simulated length of 16 bytes or 80 bytes. However, client code
must provide a class that calculats the simulated length. The class must be a subclass
of SimulatedLen, which is part of Iris.

4. Iris now supports request-reply network. In other words, it supports two virtual networks:
one for request and one for reply. However, client code must provide a class that maps network
packets to the two virtual networks. The class must be a subclass of VnetAssign, which is part of Iris.

5. Iris now supports single-flit packets.

6. A few MCP-cache bugs have been fixed.



Limitations

Important limitations of this release include:

1. Performance of the parallel simulators needs improvement.




